But do you want to kick off your brown bag on um what did you call it? Keys to a successful raid. Okay. Keys to a successful raid. A little bit of project management. Um quick introduction. This is EC Wireless. um one of the lead cleric slash monks slash levelheads in Raid Guild. Um and he's going to share some of his experience with putting together a successful raid.

And we are recording and good to go whenever you want to start. Okay, I've got slides here.

Okay, so keys to a successful raid as a monk slash project manager. Uh myself, you all that already know this. Should I just do it for the recording? Uh uh yeah. So uh out of college started out uh basically started my postc college career managing a media studio and then uh through that work was fiddling with the uh website for the studio and uh doing very small website gigs here and there. Um after a while eventually was hired to just redo the entire website uh which was like a a commerce site. So I ended up doing that and then um the person who hired me to do that also gave me jobs elsewhere and it kind of kicked off uh my contracting journey with web development and at the same time also was finding out about web 3 stuff was really into Dow stuff in particular. So I started contributing to to Aragon. Um and then through Aragon found Raid Guild and uh through Raid Guild have pretty much uh found like everything else. So have done tons of Raid Guild raids. Through that um ended up working with people in Raid Guild to build an MVP for a project called Rigger, which was a uh a home construction lending project. Um and so I helped build the MVP for that. They raised money eventually on that MVP and was head of product uh on that for a little bit. Um and uh and since that company has uh gone under which was a couple years ago have stuck with raid guild stuff since then I think I've done like 20 to 30 raids have monked slash project managed between like 10 and 20 something like that. Um so this entire talk uh is going to be mainly focused I think that the emphasis is going to be on like the the teams that are involved in uh raids and how a lot of things are dependent on that. Um, and in the spirit of that would just uh reference my some of my favorite raids and people that I actually maybe uh for the sake of time we'll skip that. But um heavy emphasis is going to be on on teams for for successful raids like the people that are involved. Um so the three pillars of this that I worked out is scope, team and pace. And a lot of this is going to be kind of bullet points looseish thoughts for three three things. So uh can jump in anywhere and just like ask anything in particular um at any point. So the uh the first main pillar for project managing is determining the scope of the project. Um, so the first thing you need to recognize when you are project managing is knowing that you're ultimately responsible for the quality of the build. So the quality of the build buck stops with you. You own the scope and you have to be very aware of what your core competencies are and not taking on something that uh could go well beyond those core competencies. Um, a lot of the things in here also are in relationship to a cleric slash account manager. So, when you join a raid, you do it in partnership with a cleric. And so, with that in mind, you need to be honest about your core compet competencies with that cleric because they are the people who are ultimately responsible for the entire project to the client. So you uh end up making them look bad by uh by not uh recognizing I guess uh the the main skill sets that you have in in a project. Um so once you begin a project, the first thing that I think is absolutely necessary is actually writing out what you think the project is. So don't just usually a project will will come in with uh what they want the project to like with a description of of what the project in their mind is. um and what they think should happen with it. Uh I think it's a really good exercise before you delve into it at all to actually write out what you think the project is in your own words. Um and then beginning begin and the the client based on that. Um and then once you have good clarity around that, you start on the actual scope. One important thing to keep in mind as you're scoping is that a project will never shrink. So you want to begin with it as tight as possible. So find the boundaries, draw the boundaries, and then redraw them so the lines are super thick. Um, and the boundaries that you're you're drawing should depend ultimately on what the client's goal is for that particular thing. Whether or not it's getting a certain number of users, whether or not it's raising money with it. um you should know what the the client's goals are and use that to determine like what things should get cut out because you're gonna have to cut out something that the the client wants. Um and in fact, maybe it's worth mentioning uh whether or not the client totally is aware of this, they're hiring you because you have experience in letting them know what they uh should cut out. Uh so even if they're excited about stuff, it's your job to let them know, I know you're excited about this. this isn't the time to do it given that this is your goal. Um, and also just be aware that even when you draw these thick boundaries, things are still going to leak beyond the boundaries. So, projects never shrink. Um, then you want to break things out into stacks, tools, and timelines as best as possible. Don't be too strict on this, which I'll get into in the next slide. Um, write things out yourself and [snorts] make sure that everything that you're writing out you can personally justify. So you don't want to have a thing in a scope that if someone asks you about it, you don't know why you put it there. I think it's it's uh like obviously you should use all the modern tools, LLMs, project managing uh like chatbot helpers, but you should personally be able to justify everything that you're you end up going with. Um and uh I think above all the three pillars uh this is the the most important pillar and I wrote out here that the most important job as a monk I think um is not just creating the scope and the timeline but ultimately it's it's you having the most context of what is being built on on the entire team. That's the most important thing I think your job is. Um, so you should do your own research. Absolutely. Um, and have justifications for everything you're choosing and be confident in what you're choosing. And that's mainly because, uh, I think a lot of things that happen in a raid are dependent on the entire team being confident and going to you for a decision or for a requirement or for anything. Um, a lot of the times team members are going to be scoped to a particular thing and they're not going to have a full context and they need to know that you have the full context of of uh what should be built. So, second thing is the team. So, raid guild as I mentioned uh clerics have the final say um or they're they're the main people that own the the project overall but they also have the final say on the team. Um, but a good client monk partnership usually makes this process super smooth almost always if it's a good partnership between monk and cleric. It's the two of them like coming up with it together. Um, like if you're a cleric and you have a project manager who wants a team that you don't want, probably just don't go with that project manager cuz it's not going to be an enjoyable process. Um and with uh this being the second pillar, uh I would say that this is the second most important job um in uh the whole process of the raid, which is having the intuition of what each team member is good at and letting them actually be good at that thing, not getting in the way of of them being good at that thing. Um so don't be fooled into thinking that the project is dependent on you. It really depends on the team that is assembled and how much they are enabled to do what they're already good at. So don't get away don't get in the way of your team. Uh ensure every team member has a very I think this is actually uh in order to for for the last point of enabling your your team to be good at uh what they already are good at. Uh, I think the way that you do that is ensuring team all team members have a super clear idea of what their role actually is, where the boundaries are between what they're doing and what other people on the team are doing and what their ultimate requirements are. Um, and as long as they understand that super well, um, and you know that they do, just let them do what they want, I think. Um, don't micromanage. Uh, and this is a little bit more opinionated, uh, but I would even go as far as to say let them pick their own stack unless requirements demand something in particular. I think most people uh, or if not all people are going to do their best whenever they work with the tools that they're familiar with and that they're super competent in. Um, and then last thing on teams is cut out bad teammates fast and early. Um, if there's red flags with someone that you haven't worked with before, it's generally not going to get better unless you have some sort of intuition that they're early on something and they can get better at something. Um, if someone is bringing like some kind of toxic uh dynamic or if they have totally misled what they are good at, then I think that's something you have to deal with like as early as possible. Um and the last pillar, pace. So your third most important job I think is setting the pace for the entire project. Um ensure your timelines are totally justified at the beginning, but also be super agile when there are blockers, which there are guaranteed to be plenty of blockers in every raid. Um and the way you do this is by listening super carefully to your team. Um so part of this is also meeting regularly. I think it's pretty much impossible to have a successful raid unless you have some day that you're always coming together to talk about stuff. Even if you're talking about stuff async and you've got, you know, dashboards where everyone is updating on that dashboard and um and you've got a you've got a super clear idea of what everyone's doing. There's something about a meeting that um lets things get aired that are super important that just don't get aired async. So, I think that's like an absolutely necessary thing that has to happen. Um, and during that meeting, let there be silences because people tend to bring up uh stuff that they're maybe nervous about bringing up or that they don't think is important, but actually is important whenever there are silences. Um, and don't talk the whole time. Let other people uh talk after you've set the the agenda. Um, and acknowledge what gets completed. Uh I think it's best doing it during these intervals like actually bring up who completed what what kind of stage we're at. Um and give people a feeling of actual movements uh and building towards something um the entire time. And finally, ensure everyone knows each other's schedules. Uh this one um I think actually might be one of the more important things. I think like it's super frustrating whenever people don't show up to meetings. um the if the the regular meeting that you have actually doesn't work for that many people and they're always struggling to get to these meetings, then just change it to be a time whenever everyone can come. Make sure that people know whenever you're not going to be available because uh if you're the one setting the the pace uh and you're not available to respond to someone, that does end up blocking stuff. So, if you're not available, designate someone to to have questions go to or at least just tell people when you're going to be available again. Make just make sure everyone is aware of whenever everyone else is able to communicate, isn't going to be working um and whatnot. Um because I think it just it it overall I think makes um people people I guess build around each other. So, they they time stuff based on how they feel other people are going to be uh working off of what they're building. So if people know when other people are going to be doing stuff, they're basically going to be uh working towards that other timeline in relation to it. Um so in conclusion, ensure you have enough context to make your team confident. Know your team and then trust them or just scrap them. Be strict with your schedule, but listen carefully and adapt when you need to. And also want to say that project management management is not about you personally being technical. You can definitely be a project manager without being technical, but it is about having an intuition about technical people. Um, and developing that intuition. Um, so yeah, you don't have to be technical, but you you do need to understand uh technical people and when they say one thing, you need to understand what they actually mean. You need to understand when they're exaggerating something or under uh valuing their their skill set. um or whenever they're totally not giving a proper timeline uh for when something should be done as developers love to do. Um and again, everything comes down to the team. So, choose it wisely.

with and that's the end. So with so when you're getting into uh setting the pace and building the team, is there any tools or process you use around the um estimation or um uh setting up uh tasks or or or anything like that? I've tried asking people like what they prefer, like what their like I I used to have a thing where I would um like well I guess separating the the uh cost of stuff like payout stuff from the timeline stuff and uh like con on board type tasks used to ask just like what people's preferences are. Um, I might continue doing that, but like almost everyone actually likes whenever you as long as you are actually like actually have accurate context and understanding of the project. Most people actually like whenever you break out all the project, all the little tasks um in detail and set the timelines and whatnot. Um, like I don't know, it's kind of one of those things where more constraints like enable more freedom to some extent uh as developer. Um, and then with the coming up with estimates, I've also done different things for that where like we'll try to find a team and then get individual quotes from each person. Um, which works sometimes. Recently have tried actually just like doing the entire estimate separately and then basically said like these are the deliverables and this is the pay package attached to it. Does it work for you? and then just going with that and then also having room for people to like flag, hey, I've actually gone way over this or way under this in the process. Um, I sort of like I I kind of like that second uh version better where you come up with the pay package and the deliverables and then just uh like leave room for for the flagging. I so far I'm liking that more, but I've usually done one of the the two

Yeah, it seems that that kind of uh yeah, being able to have a little bit of an estimation is important with that relationship to the the monk and the client, the client manager. um so they can accurately set expectations with the client and uh do things like that. So you're kind of like working between the team to to find accurate estimates and then you're relaying that to the monk so that they can tell the client uh accurate expectations. Yeah. And this is ultimately also down to the the cleric as well. Like the the monk really isn't actually deciding the the payouts. It's usually the cleric will ask the monk for estimates and then the cleric goes like let's pad this five 10% or like you have to there to be some sort of agreement between the monk and the cleric usually. But then it it is ultimately down to the cleric to to go with it. So, what about when things go off the rails? Like you mentioned, ma um managing the team early hope hopefully you find people that aren't toxic and you know other things like that. Sometimes though, you know, these things just kind of it's more like not an individual is toxic, but the team members their relationship evolves into something toxic. How do you manage disputes like that both with the team and with the client manager, the monk? Um, I think the only things that have that I've never had an actual like blow up of this kind of thing, but I think what helps avoid it is having those role boundaries set ahead of time. Like I have had instances where like certain decisions should be made. Um like say there are two like front end devs. I think you do need to define for those front-end devs who's making certain calls between them. So if there's a dispute, they already know who's making that call. Um and then like if there's an even bigger dispute, it is ultimately up to you. But I think you can like avoid that it it ever getting to you by just saying like if it is dealing with this stuff, this person is deciding. If it's dealing with this stuff, this person is deciding. Like if it's a design thing, then it's on person A. If it's a a tool set decision or a framework decision, then it's it's on person B to decide that. So I think just like setting it up front, like uh defining that up front just avoids it for the most part. with the uh I guess another way it goes off the rails almost always is um estimations being a little too optimistic or just the normal kind of overflow on on shipping. How do you handle when something like that happens when um it's like well we need another 3 weeks to get this done? Uh, I mean, I guess that is mainly coming up with a good story for the client or not a good story because that sounds like it sounds like it's made up, but like as long as you like know why it happened and it like it makes sense to the client why it happened. And like I think it most of the time that that does happen it it makes total sense to the client and it even seems a little bit be like often that if everything is running moderately smoothly the blockers should be blockers that seem totally reasonable like you're being held up by something really uh upstream like one provider is not able to um service this particular thing. Um, if it come if it comes from you not doing like proper research, that's a lot more difficult. Um, but yeah, I guess on the client side, it's it's it's just like actually understanding why it took longer and making sure to communicate that um as best as possible. And then on the dev side, whenever they go over um I don't know that that still remains kind of difficult. it like almost every dev will let themselves go over without flagging stuff appropriately, I think. Uh or they'll like save um save like complaints toward the towards the end. So, I don't know, like just really um banging on people flacking stuff uh earlier. Um but usually I mean if it's something like egregious then I think you just have to give part of your pay cut to those people um is the only way to deal with it. But uh yeah I feel like there is a tendency for developers to let themselves go over and kind of silently being angry to themselves without actually communicating it. So that is a bit of a problem I guess. Um, you know, every once in a while, no matter how well you you do, there's a client issue, right? Or the clients decide to pivot or pull funds or um not follow through. How do you handle something like that? Um, I guess most of it should have been in terms upfront, but you know, every once in a while there's something, right? Yeah. I don't think I' I've ever had the a client like pull funds midway through a project. I mean, there have definitely been like tons of projects where the client's super excited, they're super happy with everything, and they go off with this MVP or or whatever, and then just we just never hear from them again. Um, even though it sounded like they were going to come back to us for like a phase 2 or whatever. Um, that's not too bad. I don't think I I've never had an instance where they've like refused to pay midway through or they've just like disappeared luckily. So, I uh I'm not not sure what the way to handle that. Well, that's probably good. Um, and I I guess on that like followup that's more of a monk, you know, monk's duty is to to manage those relationships and to continue to follow through to see what what is next or what else can be done. Yeah, that's true. That's that's on the Yeah. on the cleric really. So, yeah, that won't even really be in the the purview of a monk for the most part. I don't think that's not a purview of the monk. I don't I I could like everyone has a slight difference. I was saying it wrong. The monk is the project manager and the cleric is the client manager. Yeah. I think all all money related things es like all kind of interactions with the the client particularly moneywise uh is like I think fully in the purview of the the cleric rather than the monk.

Sam, is there anything that's coming to your mind that you'd like to ask or I'm wondering like how consistent it is um how consistently are like different monks within Rage Guild using the same tooling um like GitHub projects for cananban boards or um you know Figma or Miro for diagram programming and planning, that kind of stuff. In your experience, have you seen that it's just whatever the monk wants or is there some common tools that that have been helpful? Um, I mean, it seems like the main common thing is GitHub project boards. Um, I guess especially I've seen like non-technical project managers start using boards where like, you know, three or four years ago I don't think that was the case as much. Um, but yeah, it does seem like it's it's up to the like different project managers have different things. Like I've seen project managers [clears throat] stick to like notion stuff. I never touch notion stuff. Um, I do a lot of HackMD stuff. I don't think other project managers use HackMD very much. Um, so yeah, it seems like the GitHub project board is like the main thing people use, but beyond that, people kind of stick with their own thing. Yeah. Yeah, I guess I'm wondering is there some way to have like output or something from a project even if different tooling is used and stuff, but that's like here's some knowledge from the project that that could then be used in some of our future agentic flows and stuff. I mean, I wonder if you could just get like [clears throat] a Can you have a GitHub key that can read the the project boards? Because like sometimes I'll just I think people are familiar enough with GitHub project boards and like conbon boards in general that instead of having a write up for the client, sometimes I'll just send over the the project board and they can just watch like watch what's happening like is usually more enjoyable to to get a status update I think than a full writeup. But for an agent, um I don't know. I imagine you could you could have an API key that allows an agent to read that. So what other ways are you using AI as a project manager and what other So you mentioned maybe like product or project uh updates could be useful. What other kind of aentic workflows might be uh be useful? notifications or I don't know and also how are you using it in general? I mean usually just using it for like sanity checking like if I once I have the different like stacks and and timelines and um estimates I'll have sanity checks on all that stuff and I'll even like brainstorm to get it to those even to get the the stack or the the estimates to begin with. Um, so I guess usually just kind of like a brainstorming and sanity checking kind of thing. And then the devs are probably heavily using code generation. Is it have you noticed that change estimates? What's weird is so like with um like just finished a project recently where that was like a heavy heavy emphasis was everyone should be using this kind of stuff. It is like a weird thing where like I think like if you counted all of her hours it was way it was well beyond what was quoted like probably by like 50% or something. Um and which is crazy considering like the project was even kind of smallish and it already like it was smallish. it had a big budget even though it was small and people still like it still took a long time to to do stuff. Um so I don't know it's kind of odd. I mean I have heard people say like hey you know for these projects we should really try to use AI as much as as much as possible to really help us. And I feel like people don't real like some people seem to not realize everyone's already doing that. Like everyone's been using their own tools, AI tools on their own like for a while I think. Uh so I don't know. I think everyone's got their own little flows for this kind of stuff. Um I've been reading it doesn't speed it up. seems like I've been reading more about um it's I think it's still very niche but there's a this dark factory pattern and and this is different than the dark factory project we're working on but it was kind of what inspired it but there's um design and dev agencies now that are explicitly committing to never looking at code and saying AI will do 100% % of code and review. Um, and not necessarily saying that they're going to be faster or more efficient, although I think that's what they're implying. Uh, and I don't know how well it works, but there are some groups that are being very explicit about that now. Are they just challenging themselves or is it like a stunt or do you think that is there like a thesis that if the humans don't intervene and [ __ ] up the code that the machines are writing the machines will do it better? I think there is a thesis to that and some something to that. Um when you especially with the newer models, it's kind of like if you pull the humans out of it so so they're not um mucking around. Uh sometimes you get to where you're trying to go faster and better. Um but I don't know. I think it's going to be a little more time and the humans still are like very important and the experienced [snorts] devs are still very important as curation and and um and spec and architecture and but uh for actually generating the code it's like just stay out of the way of the the robots. Yeah. Yeah, I mean the uh the project I'm thinking of that that didn't seem like it was helped um timelinewise by the agent stuff. Um I mean like it almost seems like it it probably is more robust code, but it still took the same amount of time and the I know one of the devs I don't think actually knew how to do some of the stuff in it. And so they were able to to write code that they would not have normally been able to do and it was probably much more robust. Um so it's kind of like I don't know it elevated devs to do better stuff even though it it it still ended up taking longer. But this also was before all the clawbot and the like codecs and uh cloud workspace stuff. So it might be a different story now with that like this was without that kind of loop of it's literally writing all the code and reviewing all the code like there were human reviewers for for uh this entire process. So I don't know like I guess a month ago to today it probably is a different story if you were to redo the whole thing now right you got to kind of well I guess you just got to always be adapting and um yeah I think it is very reliant on having good [snorts] fleshed out and tested workflows for doing that code review loop um for it to to work at all and not just totally go down in flames. [clears throat] Thank you, man. This was very insightful. I think, you know, a lot of this information, like the um the way that clerics and raid guild work should probably be a little more aligned and standardized so that we can can continue to iterate and and test our different theories and assumptions and and and get better at it even over time.

Do we have time? Can I?