little mini brown bag on on Venice AI. Um, so Venice AI is a like a hosted uh AI LLM service, right? So it hosts a bunch of um different models and allows you to use it as an API for your local inference or they have a similar kind of thing as chat GPT um where you can chat directly with it. Their big their initial interesting thing was that it's private by default and uncensored. Um, meaning like OpenAI and Anthropic, they add a little bit of like we can't see your uh Venice AI site if you're on. Oh, not yet. I'm just like blabbing on. Um, they wait. Let me go first to the home page if I can get to it. Hey, also Dee, you want to invite Prism in here or is this just jamming? Um, I think since I'm gonna I'll record this and then I'll prismify it later so it feels more like knowledge that it knows. Um, which is a good point. Maybe we should think about how that works. Anyways, so Venice AI, um, it's I I should have a login here.

ask anything privately. Um, I don't know. So, you could ask something more risque. Um, or like how do you make a a boweapon? I don't know. Maybe you could do something like that. I'm I'm not actually going to do it, but it's the thing here was that it would be like, okay, we're not going to read all your chats um like OpenAI and Anthropic and Google do. um you know they they're logging everyone's chats and they probably even have flags when you say something um that or you start sounding like dangerous or that you have mental problems um where they can like flag that and call the local authorities. Um there's some talk of that. I don't know if that's actually happening and it's not necessarily a bad thing, but sometimes you want a private chat and so that's a point here. Now, it's not from what I understand at this time, it's not like cryptographically private. They just have a uh in their legal contract a David a data preserving or preservation clause. I can't remember what they call that, but that they don't store any of the information on their servers. And it's so it's not part of their process. They have no way to do it. They're just saying that there's no way to prove it. I think on their longer road map they're setting up like ways to actually prove that. Um, so that was their first kind of an interesting thing. So you can come in and play with it. I have a dick butt agent over here character. I don't know what he does, but that was when I was initially playing with it. And but the real interesting uh part started being when they started hosting all the all the different um models. So okay so initially their other claim was that was awesome was they hosted all the open- source models. So you had all the open source options, but now they actually host um GPT and codeex 53 and 54 um the newer Claude and Opus models um all the all that stuff. So you can choose and the the difference there because it can't actually be private. It's anonymized. So you're going through their proxy. They're not keeping any information. They're basically proxying uh your request to to that server and they're getting the reply back. Um but it they don't know who it came from. Uh so you know OpenAI doesn't know who the request came from. Um but their token model is also very cool. So, they have this token called DM. And DM gives you um a daily amount of credits that you can use. And [clears throat] [cough] let me go over to the token dashboard.

Excuse me. So, what's interesting about this is they have an init their like surface token is this VV. This is what they did their airdrop with. And I got a small airdrop for using it as the early user. But then what you can do is you stake it and you get a little bit of yield, some rewards from it. But while it's staked, then you can mint DM. and DM the price has recently been going up um a lot because what's kind of cool is one DM is worth 1% of their compute a day. So um right now I think one DM costs a thousand bucks or something like that. But with this you stake your your triple V and then you're able to mint or burn DM. And so right now I've staked $783 worth of EVV and I get I have one DM which gives me a daily limit and that and so the daily limit is really interesting especially when you're doing like automations and things like that because it's like well I pretty much know how many tokens I'm going to use every day or I can use up to this amount of tokens every day without going over. Um if I need more then I need to get more DM. if you want to. Now, DM is also tradable. You can just go buy DM directly. Um, but you don't get the the yield like you do from the triple V. Um, if you unstake a DM, you get your triple V back or you'll get some. It's kind of like taking a CDP in a way. You're like locking it up and you're getting DM back. Um, so that the one thing that's really interesting about this model is it's like directly tied to utility and there's not a lot of tokens like that. And so I think that's pretty neat. Uh, here's actual prices. So, um, a DM right now is $737.

And if we look at the market,

you can see it, you know, it's had a pretty good growth. It's kind of flattened out right around here for a while, but and I had a little bit of a pump, but it wasn't like an initial pump and dump. It's just it seems pretty organic which I think is interesting. Um

they also they have a mechanic where they buy and burn um the triple V as it's because you're like over time it's it's increasing its scarcity that way and they're trying to inject the value back into the token this way um through the buy and burn. So that's pretty cool. Now, how the price equals out at this point, it's a little more expensive than doing your monthly plan, I think, depending on how much you use it. I think it's probably comparable if you're using like a pro plan. But, but the daily limit thing is is kind of the difference. Instead of having a monthly limit and then like falling over into a balance, you have this daily limit. and you can fall over into a a cash balance and you can just buy a normal subscription as well. But I really like the token model. And what I think could be interesting is like if you're dollar cost averaging in and say you're paying $200 a month for the pro plan on OpenAI, instead you just buy $200 worth of triple V and stake it, get a little more DM. um it continues to add up and then you the nice thing is when you're done or you want to cancel your subscription or you want to cash out, you still have the underlying asset. So you'll be able to recoup some amount um of it and maybe it goes up, maybe it goes down, but there's some amount you'll probably be able to recoup. And so I I like this model. And that was my my quick brown bag.

Interesting. Uh probably it's a little probably a little tough for like normies to probably maneuver through, but yeah, I get it. But yeah, can can you use it with the pinata agents? You can. Um that was one of my feature requests to them. It was to add this in their like initial thing. But to use it in piñata now you have to like once you get in the chat you say like you add a secret for your API key. You got to be careful actually not to show a bunch of stuff. Um but you can issue you can generate API keys. You get your API key. you put in a a secret of you know Venice API key or something and then in the chat you'll say like I want to change my default model to use um Venice models. Okay, this is one other cool thing to show real quick. Uh

so here's they have like a 100 different models available. Um which is really pretty impressive. all the Frontier models, all these like new Spark and and Flash models. Um they've got a bunch of vision model uh vision capable models and just like image generating models, um audio and voice transcription. And so you have all these things. And there's a cool skill um

which this is a a useful thing for what is it? Claw skills. Clawhub just in general.

Um clawhub is a good place to find skills. It's a registry of a bunch of skills, but they have different Venice AI skills and like um can do model routing, which is kind of cool. So, if you set this up and then you tell it to use this model routing skill, this isn't the right one. I don't know why I went to it automatically, but um then you know if you ask a simple question, it routes to a a cheaper model. If you ask something very complex that needs a lot of reasoning and thinking, it brought to a a a more expensive model. And so that's that's a way to save tokens and be a little more efficient. So that's another cool thing.